#summary Present some helpful SQL scripts for Oracle.

= Helpful Scripts =

== Drop all user tables ==
The following script drops all user tables. So be careful!
{{{
DECLARE
BEGIN
  FOR i IN (SELECT table_name FROM user_tables)
  LOOP
    EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'DROP TABLE ' || i.table_name || ' CASCADE CONSTRAINTS';
  END LOOP;
END;
}}}

== Database locks ==
This script shows all database locks, the associated db/os users and other informations.
{{{
ttitle "Lock Listing"
set linesize 150
set echo off
col oruser format a16 heading "Oracle Username"
col osuser format a13 heading "O/S Username"
col obj format a20 heading "Locked Object"
col ss heading "SID/Ser#" format a12
col time heading "Logon Date/Time" format a19
col rs heading "RBS|Name" format a4
col unix heading "O/S|Process" format a9
col computer heading "Machine name|of Locker" format a20
set linesize 120
select     owner||'.'||object_name obj
   ,oracle_username||' ('||s.status||')' oruser
   ,os_user_name osuser
   ,machine computer
   ,l.process unix
   ,''''||s.sid||','||s.serial#||'''' ss
   ,r.name rs
   ,to_char(s.logon_time,'yyyy/mm/dd hh24:mi:ss') time
from       v$locked_object l
   ,dba_objects o
   ,v$session s
   ,v$transaction t
   ,v$rollname r
where l.object_id = o.object_id
  and s.sid=l.session_id
  and s.taddr=t.addr
  and t.xidusn=r.usn
order by osuser, ss, obj
/
ttitle off
set linesize 132
}}}

== Session killer ==
The following script kills all database sessions. You should modify the filter for a more selective behavior. Don´t forget to uncomment one of the lines.
{{{
set serveroutput on;

DECLARE
  v_sql VARCHAR2(1000);
  
  CURSOR v_cursor IS
    SELECT SID as sid, SERIAL# as serial, STATUS, SERVER, OSUSER
    FROM V$SESSION
    WHERE OSUSER NOT IN ('USER_1', 'USER_2');
   --'ta2tfsbuild';
BEGIN
  FOR row IN v_cursor
  LOOP
  	DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('SID: ' || row.sid || ', serial: ' || row.serial || ', os_user: ' || row.osuser);
  	v_sql := 'ALTER SYSTEM KILL SESSION '''
	  || row.sid || ',' || row.serial || '''';
	--DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE(v_sql);
	--execute immediate v_sql;
  END LOOP;
END;
/
}}}

== SQL Loader ==
The following script generates a SQL*Loader configuration. The code snippet needs two input parameters: Table name and the potential Date format.
{{{
set echo off ver off feed off pages 0 
accept tname prompt 'Enter Name of Table: ' 
accept dformat prompt 'Enter Format to Use for Date Columns: ' 

spool &tname..ctl

select 'LOAD DATA'|| chr (10) ||
       'INFILE ''' || lower (table_name) || '.dat''' || chr (10) ||
       'INTO TABLE '|| table_name || chr (10)||
       'FIELDS TERMINATED BY '','''|| chr (10)||
       'TRAILING NULLCOLS' || chr (10) || '(' 
from   user_tables
where  table_name = upper ('&tname');

select decode (rownum, 1, '   ', ' , ') ||
       rpad (column_name, 33, ' ')      ||
       decode (data_type,
           'VARCHAR2', 'CHAR NULLIF ('||column_name||'=BLANKS)', 
           'FLOAT',    'DECIMAL EXTERNAL NULLIF('||column_name||'=BLANKS)',
           'NUMBER',   decode (data_precision, 0, 
                       'INTEGER EXTERNAL NULLIF ('||column_name||
                       '=BLANKS)', decode (data_scale, 0, sqlplus 
                       'INTEGER EXTERNAL NULLIF ('||
                       column_name||'=BLANKS)', 
                       'DECIMAL EXTERNAL NULLIF ('||
                       column_name||'=BLANKS)')), 
           'DATE',     'DATE "&dformat" NULLIF ('||column_name||'=BLANKS)', null) 
from   user_tab_columns 
where  table_name = upper ('&tname') 
order  by column_id;

select ')'  
from dual;
spool off
}}}